Support for alternative container runtimes - Podman (#2745)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/operations/hosting/self-hosted/self-hosted-with-podman.md

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Run Dapr in self-hosted mode with Podman"
linkTitle: "Run with Podman"
weight: 20000
description: "How to deploy and run Dapr in self-hosted mode using Podman"
---

This article provides guidance on running Dapr with Podman on a Windows/Linux/macOS machine or VM.

## Prerequisites

- [Dapr CLI]({{< ref install-dapr-cli.md >}})
- [Podman](https://podman.io/getting-started/installation.html)

## Initialize Dapr environment

To initialize the Dapr control-plane containers and create a default configuration file, run:

```bash
dapr init --container-runtime podman
```

## Run both app and sidecar as a process

The [`dapr run` CLI command]({{< ref dapr-run.md >}}) can be used to launch a Dapr sidecar along with your application:

```bash
dapr run --app-id myapp --app-port 5000 -- dotnet run
```

> This command will launch both the daprd sidecar binary and run `dotnet run`, launching your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command launches both the daprd sidecar and your application.
```
